# Utiliti-Software-Linux-Based-
##### Feature: Alarm Clock, Weather Now, and News include this software.
###### TOOLS & TECHNOLOGIES: Linux Operating System, Bash Script (Bourne Again Shell), Zenity package (Gnome library package for building dialog box), Sox (Command line media player), Python, Rest API (OpenWeatherAPI & NewsAPI), VsCode(For text editor) and its terminal.

We develop a utility software program. It is a graphical user interface (GUI) project. For creating interfaces, the gnome Library is used. Utility software is designed to assist in the analysis, configuration, optimization, or maintenance of a computer. In contrast to application software, which is aimed at directly performing tasks that benefit ordinary users, it is used to support the computer infrastructure. Utilities, on the other hand, are frequently included in application systems. A batch job could, for example, run user-written code to update a database and then include a step that runs a utility to back up the database, or a job could compress a disk before copying files. Although an operating system (OS) generally includes a basic set of utility programs, and this first-party utility software is frequently considered part of the operating system, users frequently install replacements or additional utilities. Those utilities may provide additional capabilities for tasks that are beyond the operating system's capabilities. Many utilities that have the potential to affect the entire computer system require elevated privileges, whereas others that only affect the user's data do not.

